---
path: "/process"
date: "2019-09-09"
title: "Sept 09"
featuredImage: ../images/brainstorming.jpeg
---

###Brainstorming

Here’s an interesting idea I though of: we could use what’s called a RF detector which detects electronic signals such as wifi, bluetooth, cellular devices, etc. As more people enter a room, the signal would get stronger as most of us have electronic devices on us. The room could react based on how strong the signal is. It’s visualizing data we cannot see. This could be done with a sculptural piece, using projectors, a mix of both. We could also maybe tie that in with a website that viewers can visit that also has an impact on the room (I would like to explore the differences between having a presence that is physical, digital or both) And for the environmental aspect, we could maybe somehow incorporate e-waste.

The idea I had was to make an installation where we can get different electronic parts and lay them down on the floor outside, we can use the sun as a way of natural light and a way of drawing, by having heat conducting metal or a natural substance that reacts to heat they can draw manually how they feel about what is going on around them. We can connect them and what the installation part of the project can do is react and interact with the audience by showing them and making them view different ways. We can have a way of also making the audience visualize data by different ways they are feeling. When they would laugh it would show data of laughing events or different data and or if they are confused the electronic parts and sun heating the metal would take the place of the audience or person using it and interacting with it and would create its own way of visualizing what is going on around the piece.

###Notes for ideas:

The idea of ref detector
Visualizing the invisible data
Computer genarated patterns
More people would participate 

The electronics
Fans air power 
Wind fan motors being controled 
Environmental landscape motors
Sounds with mechanical parts with symphonic way of representing
Mechanical sounding room
Entering room where the room starts to make noises
Emotions with sounds
Organic objects that use water to drip downwards
Botanical gardens of sounds

own miniature city with the environment
Feedback with colour greener the better
Progress greenery over time 
Smart sustainability city

Teaching good habits to people through gamification
Interact with what is going on over time

The theme of energy 
Good and bad

Clear water and the more they would interact would be clearer over time 
Use phones as interactions 

Interact with collaboration 
Teratory aquisition 
Where the people are effect the environment 
Visual art piece
Idea of repition a statement of design