---
path: "/process"
date: "2019-10-14"
title: "Oct 14th"
featuredImage: ../images/proposal.png
---

###Proposal: INTERACTIVE SIGNALLING

####Project Statement

Interactive signalling is an analogue of pollution awareness. This project visualizes invisible signals such as those we emit by carrying around our smartphones. The aim of our project is to sensitize and raise awareness of pollution.

People are unaware of the impacts of technology on the environment. We use our smartphones, phablets, tablets and computers without thinking of any negative consequences. To demonstrate the problem, we propose to build an immersive and interactive art installation to show these digital emissions by using a mixture of images and sound. The audience engages with the art installation by exploring the space. The centerpiece is a QR code mounted on a pedestal, once scanned, the participant is connected to our project and acknowledges and agrees to hand over their data. The space is equipped with four antennas that capture cellular data, Bluetooth and WIFI in real-time. The data collected from the sensors and from the participants is consolidated to a database on the cloud and subsequently processed to produce a visual and auditory experience.

####Project Description
We plan to rollout our art installation in three phases: proof of concept, prototype and production.

First, the proof of concept begins by developing a website. Analog input samples connect to a database which resides on the cloud. Once a successful communication is established between the database and the input-output devices, real-time data is captured by using microcontrollers such as a Raspberry Pi and electromagnetic field (EMF) detectors.

Second, the prototype requires a minimal installation of hardware.  This includes a Raspberry Pi, mini projectors, speakers, QR code and EMF detectors which all communicate with the database. The prototype testing should confirm two way communication with all devices. 

Third, our production intention is to build a mobile art installation that can be set up in any dark room. In the middle of the room, there will be a box which contains four mini projectors that face each wall. The visual representation of the electronic signatures will be translated by an algorithm which will display computer generated wave patterns onto the walls. As the number of devices emitting signals in the space increases, the more wave patterns are produced. The intensity of the captured signals correlates to its amplitude. In addition, the collected data is interpreted into sound. Similar to the imagery, the space resonates with an orchestral abstraction of sounds. Devices can be grouped together into categories determined by the strength of their signals. Ultimately, the audience experience is amplified by the number of devices in the room. 

On the top of the box is a QR code. Participants can scan the code which brings them to our website which allows them to interact with our installation in another way.   

We tend to forget the impact of daily electronic usage in our everyday life as a contributor to pollution.  Interactive Signalling expresses the paradox of recognizing our invisible digital impact on the environment as well as a reminder of our responsibility to reduce our ecological footprint.

Interactive Signalling engages the community at Concordia University by making digital pollution come alive with images and sounds. This is important because new research is taking place related to pollution here at Concordia. Our project is timely with current cultural discussions as we must take action now to fight pollution and improve our relationship with nature. Our art installation is another medium to contribute to the conversation on pollution awareness.

